#NETWORKING 

A protocol is a <span style="color:#ababf5;">set of rules</span> that define a communication and exchange of data over the internet. 

Both the sender and receiver should follow the same protocol to be able to communicate between them. 

There are some different protocols over the internet for different purposes: 

#### TCP/IP Transmission Control Protocol over IP

This protocol allows the communication by identifying each computer of a connection with an unique serial number known as IP (Internet Protocol Address). 

This protocol specifies how the data is exchanged and how the data is broken into IP packets. 

#### SMTP Simple mail Transfer Protocol

Use for sending and distributing outgoing emails. 
Uses the header of an email to get the email id of the reciever and enters the email into an outgoing queue. When this email is delivered, this email is deleted from the outgoing queue. 

#### `PPP` Point-to-point Protocol

Communication protocol used to create a direct connection between two communicating devices. 
Defined the rules in which the two devices need to <span style="color:green;">authenticate</span> with each other. 
Its used for connecting a PC to an ISP or between two routers direct communication.

#### `FTP` File Transfer Protocol

Used for transferring files between two systems. 
When a device requests a file transfer, the <span style="color:blue;">FTO</span> sets up a connection authenticating each other with an ID and password, then the transfer is performed. 

#### `SFTP` Secure File Transfer Protocol

Also known as SSH FTP refers to File Transfer Protocol over Secure Shell (SSH). [[SSH - (Cryptography) Secure Shell]]. 

This protocol encrypts both commands and data while the transmission using SSH keys. 

Its used for encrypting the remote connection to other systems while executing commands in the command line. 

#### `HTTP` HyperText Transfer Protocol

Used to transfer <span style="color:orange;">hypertexts</span> over the internet and its defined by www. 
Defines the data format and transmission and actions that web browsers need to take in response to the calls to a certain web. 

There also exist a secure version: 

#### `HTTPS` HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure

Uses <span style="color:orange;">SSL/TLS</span> protocol for encryption and authentication. Used for when the website receives sensitive information such as credit card details. 

Uses an <span style="color:orange;">SSL certificate</span> installed to make the web more secure. 

#### `TELNET` Terminal Network

Standard TCP/IP protocol used for virtual terminal service given by ISO. 
This enables one local machine to connect with another and let us display anything being performed on the remote computer

#### `POP3` Post Office Protocol 3

It has two Message Access Agents (MAAs) where: 
* One is client MAA
* One is server MAA

This allow accessing the messages from the mailbox. 
This protocol let us retrieve and manage emails from the mailbox in the receiver mail server to the receiver device. 

#### `ICMP` Internet Control Message Protocol

Is a network protocol used to send error messages and operational information about network conditions. 

Its a part of IP protocol and help to diagnose and troubleshoot issues with network connectivity. 

This ICMP messages are typically generated by network devices such as routers in response to errors or exceptional conditions in a <span style ="color:orange;">forwarding datagram</span>. Examples: 

* Echo requests and Echo reply (ping command)
* Destination Unreacheable
* Time Exceeded
* Redirect

Its <span style="color:#ababf5;">not a secure protocol</span> and can be used by some type of network attacks like DDoS amplification. 

#### `UDP` User Datagram Protocol

Is a connectionless, unreliable transport layer protocol. 
It doesn't establish a reliable connection between devices and doesn't guarantee that data packets will be received in the order or even received. 

Simply sends the packets of data to a destination without error checking or flow control. 

Used for <span style="color:orange;">real-time applications</span> such as video and audio streaming, online gaming and VoIP where a <span style="color:#ababf5;">small loss of data is acceptable and low latency is important</span>. 


#### `IMAP` Internet Message Access Protocol

Used for retrieving emails from a mail server. 
Allows user to retrieve, manage and access emails on a mail server, rather than download them into a local device.

Allows multiple users to access the same mailbox. 


